<b>my personal research within bioastronautics<b>

My interests lie with operators of aerospace systems, and as such I examine human space life sciences and the human-vehicle system in the domains of air and space. More specifically, my research furthers our understanding of the sensorimotor and neuro-vestibular systems, centered on human sensory processing. I connect threads from aerospace engineering and systems neuroscience to weave new understandings and technologies that enable human exploration in new settings.

So what do I (and other researchers in this field) mean by human sensory processing? Spaceflight changes how the brain processes information about physical world and the self within the physical world. Incoming information is sensory in nature, and sensory processing determines how humans take in sensory information and form internal representations, known as percepts. While all of the 'Big 5' hazards of human spaceflight play a roll, changes in gravity environments (hazard number 5) result in transient periods of central adaptation that are not yet fully understood, and outcomes resulting from central adaptation pose the most significant risks to astronauts in the early stages of their missions. This outcomes include spatial orientation misperceptions, alterations in locomotor and postural control, and motion sickness. 

There are two aspects of this line of research that I find to be exceptionally rewarding. The first is that the countermeasures and rehabilitation methods we develop for combating sensorimotor impairments experienced by astronauts are useful in other lines of research, improving outcomes in populations ranging from fighter pilots to aging adults on Earth. Secondly, a natural extension of this first aspect, this work is highly multidisciplinary and collaborative. For example, recent works out of the [Cullen Lab at Johns Hopkins](https://thecullenlab.org/publications/) concerning neural function in rhesus macaques are powering our computational models and understanding of how vestibular-mediated neural circuits drive human perception. Most weeks our lab at CU takes part in a journal club with [Dan Merfeld's](https://medicine.osu.edu/find-faculty/clinical/otolaryngology/dan-merfeld-phd) research group at Ohio State University, where the bioastronautics team learns how their research pertains can be applied for clinical applications.  